# sql_alchemy_challenge
Utilize Python and SQLAlchemy to do a simple exploration and generate visualizations of climate data in Hawaii based off the given database and then create a Flask API based off of the queries used in the original data exploration. 

Began by importing all neccesary dependencies into Jupyter Notebooks. To connect my SQLite database file, I used the 'create_engine()' function for the initial connection and then the 'automap_base()' function to translate the SQLALchemy tables into Python classes and saved those reflected classes as the variables 'Measurement' and 'Station'. 

From there I was able to begin my exploratory data analysis. I performed several queries using a combination of raw SQL and SQLAlchemy's ORM to find precipitation data and to determine the most active station in order to take a look at the temperature data collected at that station.

For the precipitation data, I used MatPlotLib to create a histogram of the daily precipitation measurements gathered across all stations and used 'describe()' to get a clearer description of my stats. The data showed that Hawaii had an average of only 0.177 inches of rain daily but a standard deviation of 0.46 inches, which drew me to the conclusion that on average one can expect a slight drizzle during their Hawaii trip. Based off the histogram, there are certain dates with significantly higher precipitation measurements, specifically in September, February, May and August. However our data indicates that these are rare occurances as 75% of the precipitation measurements are equal to or less that 0.13 inches of rain which is less than the average, indicating a slight skew more than likely a result of the few days of very heavy rainfall.

For the station data, after using raw SQL to determine the most active station (#USC00519281), I created another histogram uing MatPlotLib to look at the frequency of the measured temperature in Hawaii. The frequency of the measured temperature increased as the temperature rose up until 77-78 degrees, then it dropped significantly. Looking at the frequencies of the temperature, one could expect an average temperature range between 70 and 77 degrees during their Hawaii trip, if they visit during the winter there may be a dip into the 60's or if they visit in the heat of summer it may rise to the 80's but on average one can expect a range in the 70's. 

To create my Flask API, I first imported all my dependencies and set up my database in the same manner that I did in Jupyter Notebooks. I initialized a new Flask and then listed all my available API routes. I made multiple queries, same as in my Jupyter Notebook file and for each query, results were returned as a list and then converted that list into a JSON format. 
